                  IDEA 1 :                                                                                                                                                                                 It  also consists of Wi-Fi module used to implement IoT and send all the monitored parameters to the cloud for ANDROID APP MONITORING on parental phone. PANIC ALERT SYSTEM is used during panic situations alerts are sent to the parental phone, seeking for help also the alert parameters are updated to the cloud.                                                                                                                                                                     

                 IDEA 2:                                                                                                                                                                                                               
 Attacks on children have been on the rise at an unprecedented rate in recent years,with  victims finding themselves in perilous situations with little chances of contacting their families . The main goal of this project to create a SMART WEARABLE DEVICE for children that uses advanced technology to ensure their safety.As a result ,this strategy is perceived as sending an SMS from the childrens wearable to their parents or guardians.

This project employs CUTTING EDGE TECHNOLOGY to protect the youngster through the use of GSM module,ensuring that the child does not feel abandoned while dealing with such social issues .An Arudino Nano,GSM,GPS ,temperature sensor,heartbeat sensor,and a panic button will be included in the wearable. The heartbeat sensor detects the childs heart rate and delivers it to the guradian on a regular basis. If the child falls suddenly,the accelerometer detects it and alerts the parents. As a result, the parent has a sensse of security.    
               IDEA 3:  
INTERNET OF THINGS (IOT) refers to networked interconnection of objects featured with ubiquity intelligence. SENSOR known as measuring physical value and converts it into data.PROXIMITY SENSOR used to detect nearby objects. we use this kind of sensors to child safety measures.


                                                                                                                                               