IOT BASED SAFETY GADGET FOR CHILD SAFETY MONITORING AND NOTIFICATION

SOFTWARE PREREQUISITES

PythonIDE :

Python integrated development environments, or Python IDEs, are software platforms that provide programmers and developers with a comprehensive set of tools for software development in a single product, specifically in the Python programming language.
An integrated development environment (IDE) refers to a software application that offers computer programmers with extensive software development abilities. IDEs most often consist of a source code editor, build automation tools, and a debugger. Most modern IDEs have intelligent code completion. In this article, you will discover the best Python IDEs currently available and present in the markeT.
An IDE enables programmers to combine the different aspects of writing a computer program.
IDEs increase programmer productivity by introducing features like editing source code, building executables, and debugging.
Data Science with Python
The Ultimate Ticket To Top Data Science Job RolesEXPLORE COURSEData Science with Python
Features of an IDE
Let’s look at some main features of an IDE:

1. Syntax Highlighting
An IDE that knows your language's syntax can provide visual cues and keywords that are easier to read by visually clarifying the language syntax.

Code without Syntax

without-syntax

Code with Syntax

with-syntax

2. Autocomplete
IDEs are generally really good at anticipating what you're more likely to type next, making coding significantly faster and simpler.

3. Building Executables
IDE takes care of interpreting the Python code, running python scripts, building executables, and debugging the applications.

4. Debugging 
In the event that a program does not run correctly, programmers can easily detect their code eros using the debugging tools that IDEs offer.

LIST OF BEST PYTHON IDE

       1. PYCHARM
           
              PyCharm is one of the most popular Python-IDE developed by JetBrains used for performing scripting in Python language. PyCharm provides some very useful features like Code completion and inspection, Debugging process, support for various programming frameworks such as Flask and Django, Package Management, etc.PyCharm is one of the most popular Python-IDE developed by JetBrains used for performing scripting in Python language. PyCharm provides some very useful features like Code completion and inspection, Debugging process, support for various programming frameworks such as Flask and Django, Package Management, etc. PyCharm provides various tools for productive development in Python.

      2. SPYDER 
          
             Spyder is an open-source cross-platform integrated development environment (IDE) for scientific programming in the Python language.Spyder is an open-source cross-platform integrated development environment (IDE) for scientific programming in the Python language. Spyder integrates with a number of prominent packages in the scientific Python stack, including NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, pandas, IPython, SymPy and Cython, as well as other open-source software. It is released under the MIT license.

Initially created and developed by Pierre Raybaut in 2009, since 2012 Spyder has been maintained and continuously improved by a team of scientific Python developers and the community.

Spyder is extensible with first-party and third-party plugins, includes support for interactive tools for data inspection and embeds Python-specific code quality assurance and introspection instruments, such as Pyflakes, Pylint[8] and Rope. It is available cross-platform through Anaconda, on Windows, on macOS through MacPorts, and on major Linux distributions such as Arch Linux, Debian, Fedora, Gentoo Linux, openSUSE and Ubuntu.

Spyder uses Qt for its GUI and is designed to use either of the PyQt or PySide Python bindings.QtPy, a thin abstraction layer developed by the Spyder project and later adopted by mutiple packages.
   
      3. ECLIPSE PYDEV
         
             PyDev is a plugin that enables Eclipse to be used as a Python IDE (supporting also Jython and IronPython). It uses advanced type inference techniques which allow it to provide things such as code completion and code analysis, besides providing a debugger, interactive console, refactoring, tokens browser.

      4. IDLE
       
            IDLE is Python’s Integrated Development and Learning Environment.

IDLE has the following features:

coded in 100% pure Python, using the tkinter GUI toolkit

cross-platform: works mostly the same on Windows, Unix, and macOS

Python shell window (interactive interpreter) with colorizing of code input, output, and error messages

multi-window text editor with multiple undo, Python colorizing, smart indent, call tips, auto completion, and other features

search within any window, replace within editor windows, and search through multiple files (grep)

debugger with persistent breakpoints, stepping, and viewing of global and local namespaces

configuration, browsers, and other dialogs.IDLE has two main window types, the Shell window and the Editor window. It is possible to have multiple editor windows simultaneously. On Windows and Linux, each has its own top menu. Each menu documented below indicates which window type it is associated with.

Output windows, such as used for Edit => Find in Files, are a subtype of editor window. They currently have the same top menu but a different default title and context menu.

On macOS, there is one application menu. It dynamically changes according to the window currently selected. It has an IDLE menu, and some entries described below are moved around to conform to Apple guidelines.
 
         5. WING

              The Wing Python IDE family of integrated development environments (IDEs) from Wingware was created specifically for the Python programming language, with support for editing, testing, debugging, inspecting/browsing, and error checking Python code.

There are three products in this product line, each focused on different types of users:

Wing Pro – a full-featured commercial version, for professional programmers
Wing Personal – free version that omits some features, for students and hobbyists
Wing 101 – a very simplified free version, for teaching beginning programmers
Wing Pro provides local and remote debugging, editing (with multiple key bindings, auto-completion, and auto-editing), multi-selection, source browser and code navigation, code refactoring, error checking, auto-reformatting, unit testing, version control, project management, Python environment The Wing Python IDE family of integrated development environments (IDEs) from Wingware was created specifically for the Python programming language, with support for editing, testing, debugging, inspecting/browsing, and error checking Python code.

 IOT PYTHON SDK :

         The AWS IoT Device SDKs include open-source libraries, developer guides with samples, and porting guides so that you can build innovative IoT products or solutions on your choice of hardware platform.The AWS IoT Device SDKs include open-source libraries, developer guides with samples, and porting guides so that you can build innovative IoT products or solutions on your choice of hardware platforms. These SDKs help you connect your IoT devices to AWS IoT using the MQTT and WSS protocols.
  
NODE .JS to use NODE - RED SERVICES:
      
        The AWS IoT Device SDKs include open-source libraries, developer guides with samples, and porting guides so that you can build innovative IoT products or solutions on your choice of hardware platforms. These SDKs help you connect your IoT devices to AWS IoT using the MQTT.

KEY BENEFITS OF USING NODE .JS:
       
High-performance for Real-time Applications.
Easy Scalability for Modern Applications.
Cost-effective with Fullstack JS.
Community Support to Simplify Development.
Easy to Learn and Quick to Adapt.
Helps in building Cross-functional Teams.

Node.js is a cross-platform runtime environment, built on V8, high-performance open-source JavaScript engine. To ensure outstanding performance, Node.js applies event-driven, non-blocking I/O paradigm. In the past years, it gained a lot of popularity in various Node.js development circles.Node.js really shines in building fast, scalable network applications, offers benefits in performance, faster development, and other perks. Today’s requirements for processing and consuming real-time information are paramount, and Node.js is exceptionally fast for multi-user real-time data situations. No surprise, that a lot of startups lean toward it.

Node.js is best suitable for:
Real-time web applications
Streaming applications
Messaging apps
Chat programs
Social media apps
Virtual emulators
Multiplayer games
Collaboration tools
API
Node.js is most Widely Used Non-Operating System, Non-Language, Non-Database Tool Among Professional Developers 2020 survey by Stack OverflowAccording to the latest Stack Overflow survey of around 65,000  developers, 51.9% of professional programmers use Node.js in their work. In addition, many well-known brands from various industries also chose Node.js. for their projects. Let’s look at some examples:

LinkedIn. According to the developer from LinkedIn, the company uses a “ton of technologies,” but they chose Node.js for the back end of their mobile application.
Netflix. JavaScript and Node.js helped the company to transform its website into a single-page app. Java supports the backend of Netflix, and Node powers its user interfaces. 
Uber. This company actually was one of the first adopters of Node.js. Most of Uber’s systems, which help customers book a ride or see what cars are available, run on Node.


